[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I often wonder about
the nature of reality,
about our relationship to the
creative force that forged
the particles of our stars
and intertwined them with
the molecules of our bodies.
Who are we?
And where are we
actually sitting
within the architecture
of our universe?
Are we alone or is the
answer simply stranger
than we can think?
My name is Jeremy Corbell.
I seek to weaponize
your curiosity.
And if you're ready to
suspend your own prejudice,
welcome to the world of
extraordinary beliefs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> This week we've heard the
contention of UFO researchers
that there is a secret
government within
our government.
>> Well, there's several--
actually nine flying
saucers, flying discs
that are out there of
extraterrestrial origin.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> Not to burst your bubble,
but the Earth is not the center
of the universe, at
least not anymore.
You are not the star
of your own movie.
Humans are not the
top of the food chain,
and fate is a fantasy.
But I can't prove any of
this even if I wanted to.
Even if I wanted to.
>> There is an indefinable,
mysterious power that pervades
everything.
I feel it, though
I do not see it.
It is this unseen power
which makes itself felt.
There is an indefinable,
mysterious power
that pervades everything.
I feel it, though
I do not see it.
It is this unseen power, which
makes itself felt. There is--
[TEXT MESSAGE ALERT]
>> Reality simply isn't
what it used to be.
Things are not what they seem.
Everything around us
as a mental construct.
We create our own reality.
Breaking that down
is hard to do.
And once it's done, there
ain't no coming back.
What happens to people when
their fundamental beliefs,
the bedrock of
their understanding,
explodes into a
million bits and pieces
when something comes careening
out of the blue it measures
everything we know?
How do we react?
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
[TEXT MESSAGE ALERT]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is an indefinable,
mysterious power that pervades
everything.
>> Beliefs are material things.
They direct our lives and
choices, moment by moment.
They're stowe aways to
the imagination emporium,
harnessed hunches
polished with proof.
They're like clothing
we can't afford.
They elevate us, yet
they're not ours to keep.
We discard them when they
no longer serve our needs
or we find out they
weren't real at all.
This story is extraordinary,
especially if it's true.
And it all started in the
desert just north of Las Vegas.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BEEPING]
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> Area 51, the most
secretive spots on the planet,
it's located on the Northeast
edge of the Nevada test site.
And is said to be where numerous
top secret weapons systems have
been tested over the years.
According to some
UFO researchers,
it's also where
the government is
test flying alien spacecraft.
It sounds pretty far out.
But some Las Vegas residents
report having seen these flying
saucers.
>> A local scientist who says
he worked at Groom Lake and saw
the saucers joins us
in tonight's interview.
He has asked that his
identity be shielded.
Sir, how do we know you
are who you say you are,
and that you actually have
knowledge about what's
going on at Groom Lake?
>> Well, I guess there is no
way you could really know.
There's really no
way I can prove it
without revealing my identity
and getting myself into more
trouble than I have already.
>> Exactly what's
going on up there?
>> Well, there's several--
actually nine flying
saucers, flying discs
that are out there of
extraterrestrial origin.
And they're being test flown,
and basically just analyzed.
>> You say there's nine saucers?
How are those tests going?
>> As far as what?
>> As far as whether they're
successful and that sort
of thing.
>> Well, some of them are 100%
intact and operate perfectly.
The other ones are
being taken apart.
I was involved mainly in
propulsion and the power
source.
>> Where did we
get these saucers?
How did they come into the
hands of the government?
>> I haven't the slightest idea.
And you have to
understand, the information
is very compartmentalized.
And I was only
allowed information
that pertained particulary
to what I was involved in.
>> But, I mean, couldn't our
government have made them
as opposed to getting
them some alien beings?
>> Totally impossible.
The propulsion system is a
gravity propulsion system.
The power source is
an antimatter reactor.
This technology does
not exist at all.
In fact, one of the reasons
that I'm coming forward
with this information--
it's not only
a crime against the
American people,
it's a crime against the
scientific community which
I've been part of for some
time, who are actively trying
to duplicate these systems.
Yet, they are in existence
now, and basically
in the hands of the government.
>> What would happen to you if
the government learned that you
were giving us this information?
>> Anything could happen.
I don't know.
It's-- I haven't
the slightest idea.
>> But you said you were
referred getting into trouble.
Have you had some
repercussions already?
>> Yeah.
I've been threatened with
being charged with espionage
I've had my life
threatened by them,
my wife's life
threatened by them.
And, I mean, I don't know where
else you can go from there.
>> Well, we want to
thank you for joining us.
This is pretty interesting
stuff you've got to say.
Thank you.
>> All right.
>> Thank you, sir.
>> Well, more news
in just a moment.
>> Now first we go to Dan Rather
in Beijing for a look ahead
at the "CBS Evening News."
>> "CBS Evening
News" from China.
We'll have extensive of--
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> The live interview with
the shadowy Dennis drew
international attention.
Portions were broadcast by
radio in six European countries,
and in a nationally televised
TV special in Japan.
Despite numerous
inquiries and feelers,
Dennis has remained
anonymous until now.
His real name is Robert Lazar.
He says he was hired to
work at an area called
S4, which is a few miles
south of Groom Lake.
At S4, he says, are flying
saucers, antimatter reactors,
and other working examples of
technology that is seemingly
beyond human capabilities.
George Knapp,
"Eyewitness News 8."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Good evening, everyone.
You're in the right
place at the right time.
Blasting out of the Mojave
Desert like a scirocco,
blazing across the land into
your town, into your home,
slamming into your radio like
a supercharged nanoparticle
of unobtainium.
Greetings to all of
you from the boldest,
bawdiest, most outrageous
city in the world,
planetary capital of sun,
fun, sin, sex, and secrets,
my not so humble hometown
of Las Vegas, Nevada.
[LAUGHS]
You know, there are a lot
of people, myself included,
who would like to focus
on big picture stuff.
Who are these visitors?
Why are they here?
What is the nature of reality?
What is their interest in us?
Where did they come from?
You know, those
are the questions
that people have been
asking about the UFO mystery
since the beginning.
We're no closer to
answering any of them.
But Bob got pretty close.
Bob got to read these
briefing documents that
provided those kind of answers.
The thing is, when we
were covering his story,
so much of the effort was
in proving that he really
was the person he said he was.
Is it true or is it
plausible that really that
was the focus more than
the really important stuff.
You have to cover the
story of Bob Lazar.
And the only way to do
that is to talk to Bob.
And I don't know if
he'll talk to you or not,
but you need to try,
It's all going to be
circumstance for you,
is the moment that
you approach him,
the mood that he's in, what
else is going on in his life
at the time.
You might hit the
jackpot and get him
at exactly the right time
and the universe is aligned
and he's willing
to talk about it.
But you'd have to
be awfully lucky.
Because in general, Bob
doesn't like to talk about it.
I think he's very
happy in his life.
He's happy to have left
the UFO stuff behind.
He misses his his friends.
He misses John Lear.
He misses Gene Huff, maybe
even me to some extent.
But he doesn't
miss the UFO topic.
And he doesn't miss
talking about it
because ultimately,
it's disturbing.
These are disturbing issues.
They go to the heart of who we
are as people, as human beings,
the nature of reality itself.
Is this a computer simulation?
Are we all the product
of an alien video
game or some multi-dimensional
movie-- drive-in movie theater
production or something.
Big questions,
disturbing answers.
And Bob has never been
comfortable in talking
about them, never.
He reacted by going into
a cocoon in a lot of ways.
He didn't like-- he doesn't
like the attention because it
totally screwed up his life.
It's not surprising
that even years later,
he still is uncomfortable
in discussing these things.
It's a very disturbing
view of reality.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> "Being a Young
Person's Guide to UFOs."
No, this looks old, man.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
Hm.
Hey, what are we
talking about, anyway?
>> We'll go through--
>> My name's Bob Lazar.
I'm known for working at
a classified base known
as S4, out in the Nevada
desert near Area 51.
And there, we reverse
engineered alien spacecraft.
And it's changed my life a lot.
You know, it's probably
changed every aspect of it.
>> Positive or negative?
>> Well, for the
most part, negative.
I mean, I'd-- it's really
difficult to find positive
aspects of that.
I mean, I'm sure there
are some here and there.
But most of them
were-- were negative.
>> Would you-- would you take
it all back and just be Bob
the jet car guy and never have
done this if you can or are you
glad you had the experience?
>> You know, that's hard to say.
I don't know.
I think I'd lean towards not--
at this point in
my life, I probably
lean towards not
saying anything.
>> You know, what would be your
message to a young person now
about looking at your story
and thinking about the world--
what would you say to them?
>> Just pay attention.
Just pay attention.
I can't see--
I can't really say much else.
The world's a lot different
now, the way information
is disseminated and the
way-- the way things
are passed around.
It's distorted even faster and
more now than it used to be.
So they've got a
rough road ahead
if they're trying to cut
through the bullshit.
>> What do you
want them to know?
>> That in the late 1980s, the
US government had recovered
alien spacecraft,
several of them,
and the technology
in the Nevada desert,
that they were keeping
quiet and analyzing.
That's a fact.
They don't need my
story, but that's--
I mean, that's all
my story was, was
that I was just one of the
people working on these craft.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
Well, fine.
I'll just say everything instead
of holding back on anything.
>> Yeah.
>> And you can edit
it later on, and--
>> All right.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Well, then take it
from the top, then.
I mean--
>> OK.
Well, go ahead.
[LAUGHS]
>> How you got involved
with this program--
>> I had sent resumes to
several national labs.
I got a response from
a couple of them.
I went in for an interview.
They had a job in mind.
And then they continued
questioning me, mainly
on my interests outside of work.
They seemed to be really
concerned about that.
>> About things
like jet cars and--
>> Right.
What do you do in
your spare time?
You know, you say you
work on little projects.
I said, yeah, I have a particle
accelerator and my master
bedroom, and things
of that sort.
And some time went by and
they called me back in.
They said there was a
senior staff physicist that
was leaving this organization,
and they basically
interviewed me for that job.
I was given a lot of
briefings to read on--
I believe there were
121 different briefings.
And they just sat me in
a room and they had a--
while they were going
and updating my clearance
to a level that they
called Majestic--
>> You go in and you start
reading these reports.
You see some of them
deal with flying saucers.
What's your reaction?
>> Well, I was--
I was completely shocked.
I couldn't-- I
couldn't believe it.
But I was fascinated.
I was so excited.
I-- it's a science
dream, really.
Eventually, I was shown them,
one close-up, one operating.
They had one of the reactors
out of the crafts, which
was an antimatter reactor.
I was given a demonstration
on how it worked,
things that it did,
and the physics of it.
The thing they were
most interested in
is duplicating the reactors
without using this element 115,
which is, of course, impossible.
They were trying to--
and there have been projects
before that just trying
to use a normal nuclear
generator fueled
with plutonium.
And it was really
a futile attempt.
>> Some people are
sources of gravity.
Their certainty and wholeness
commands our attention.
We are drawn to them
by a natural law
that requires we don't quite
understand the mechanism.
But the pull is like a tight,
a current you can't deny.
And eventually,
it wears you down.
>> Call George Knapp.
>> Calling George Knapp, mobile.
[PHONE RINGING]
>> Hello?
>> Hey, George?
>> Hey, man.
>> What's up, man?
How you doing?
>> All right.
What's going on?
>> This is now 30 years since
you initially broke the story
of Bob Lazar.
So, I mean, the amount of
information is overwhelming.
And I just want to
go over with you some
of the details of the case.
>> Sure.
>> We're talking about UFOs,
alien craft, back engineering.
And there's Lazar,
saying he did all that.
And from what I understand,
it spread everywhere.
>> Yeah.
You know, we had the first
interview in May of 1989,
with him as Dennis.
It was not his real
identity, not--
not known, not revealed
to the audience.
And even that, before we
know who Bob Lazar was,
that sparked a big--
a great deal of interest
among the public.
I spent, like, eight months
between May and November
trying to verify Bob's
background to see if we could
solidify the case, to
see if we could find out
if he was telling the truth.
And then to-- the plan to
unleash it in November,
which is what we did.
It was the highest rated
news series we've ever done.
It was the highest
rated news special
that ever aired in Las Vegas.
And then it really exploded.
It went all over the world.
Bootleg copies of the tapes
were being sold and shown
in movie theaters.
You had media interest
from all over the world.
And I think a lot of it was
skeptical at the beginning,
which of course it would be.
But in the end, every major
news organization in the world
beat a path to Area 51's door.
And tens of thousands of people
started showing up out there
to see whatever it was that was
flying around in the desert.
They're still coming
all these years later.
And I know a lot of
my media colleagues
have had problems
with that story,
but they've all covered
it, all of them.
It put Area 51 on the map.
It's now known all
over the world.
Even though Lazar
worked at S4, Area 51
is the term that
the public knows.
So it was huge.
It was huge then, it's huge now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The mountains are
beautiful on dry lake beds,
like spaceships
from another world.
They seem to ride on
a viscous material
channeled through empty space by
heat that rises and separates.
It vitrifies
everything it contacts,
like a-- like a
green glass honey,
a goddamn, psychedelic
liquid drowning
the emptiness with imagination.
This desert is
pocked and punctuated
by 1,000 gaping holes created
in 1,000 atomic blasts that
defined an era.
What are they building in the
desert north of Las Vegas?
What are they hiding?
What the fuck are they hiding?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yeah.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> What is your name?
And what's your
relationship to Bob Lazar?
>> My name is Mario Santa Cruz.
And I met Bob actually
in my neighborhood.
He lived, like, one block over.
My attraction to Bob
was his jet dragsters.
[LAUGHS] I saw this jet dragster
sitting out in front of his
house in our neighborhood,
which was extremely--
just the jet dragster
alone was rare.
But in my neighborhood,
to see something like that
was unbelievable.
People were harassing
Bob, threatening him.
And you were with him in one
of those experiences, at least
one.
>> A couple of times, actually.
I actually had a weapon
with me, you know,
when I-- when we rode together.
Because he had been shot at.
You know?
>> Was the weapon--
was it the Uzi?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>> So when, um--
>> I don't know why
I'm being so careful.
I'm used to being that way when
it comes to talking about Bob,
being careful what I say.
You know what I mean?
So it's kind of a force
of habit to kind of just
walk on eggshells a little bit.
He just wanted to stay alive.
That's why he exposed himself.
His life was-- it was in chaos.
How he pulled out of it,
you know, he dug deep.
It's a pretty incredible story.
>> They shot at you.
Somebody shot, maybe
as a warning perhaps?
>> It was a good warning.
I had my back tire
shot out on my car
as I was getting on the freeway.
My--
>> You saw the guy.
>> Yeah.
>> Is this a secret
worth killing to keep?
I mean, the government,
would you say?
>> Obviously.
But, in fact, the only reason--
>> That you're doing this.
>> --that getting this
on tape is insurance.
>> Well that's one reason.
But, I mean, also as
an American citizen,
you're bothered by that
this stuff is going on and--
>> Yeah.
I am, but not enough to
have, you know, stood here
and have it on the record.
Insurance is, [LAUGHS] is the
true motivation behind this.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> At four months old in our
little apartment in Florida,
and that's me holding him.
A very proud mom, holding him.
We had a beautiful
little place in Florida.
Look at that.
One Sunday morning, must
have been about 6 o'clock
in the morning.
Everyone is sleeping, and
we hear this huge bang.
Robert put a jet
engine in the bike.
At 6:00 in the
morning, he decided
to take it out for a trip.
>> What did you guys think
when he said, Mom, Dad,
I'm building--
>> Scared out of my mind.
I didn't know what he
was going to do next.
Was he going to blow the house?
Blow up the world?
I don't know.
>> It's out there, you know?
>> He's out there.
>> You know, he proves
his story, let's say.
Maybe it would cause problems.
Maybe it would blow shit up.
>> It-- more than
likely, it would.
So he's best off
keeping things on low--
down low, really.
>> But at the same time,
he has said there are way--
there is a way he
could prove his story.
>> I want him to be happy.
If vindication is
what he wants, fine.
But that's up to him.
You believe him or not,
it's a fearful thing
to think that there's
something out there that we
don't know anything about.
Are they dangerous?
Can they hurt us?
Will they attack us?
You don't want to know,
so you don't believe it.
You know, you'd
rather not believe
there might be other
things out there,
other things in the universe.
There has to be.
We can't be all by ourselves.
We can't be.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> My name is Joy,
and I am Bob's wife.
We've been together,
it'll be 17 years.
>> What is it that you
think is most misunderstood?
>> That he really
is an honest guy.
You know?
He doesn't make stuff up.
>> I guess it's just so big.
>> Yeah.
>> So the easier thing to do
is to point the finger and say
liar.
>> Yeah.
That's so sad.
That's really sad, that
they don't know real Bob.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> There's particular moments
that define each one of us.
We may not know it at the
time, we learn it later.
Every action creates a
cascade of reactions.
Life is a web of events.
The action is overlaid
by consequence,
and woven across
the fabric of time.
Future determined by past,
past defined by present,
present experienced throughout
the lens of personal history.
But for some, it's obvious.
You could put your finger on
it, that definable, indelible
moment when everything changed.
>> I love my job.
There's a lot of craftsmanship
in the little stuff I do.
I really like working
with my hands.
It's a really unique job.
I don't think there's
any other job where
you get to do this kind
of stuff every day.
We'll either get a really
interesting order coming in
or Bob will get bored and try
to come up with a new product.
And that's when it
gets really fun.
So there's another
one that he wants
to do, like, recreate a
grand atomic chemistry set,
something of that sort.
And I think that will be
really cool if he ever decides
to really hone in on that.
>> This is the Atomic
Energy Lab Kit.
It's something from
the 1950s, a toy,
like a chemistry set
you get for your kid.
It was made by Gilbert.
>> Chemistry is, today, a
fascinating adventure for youth
of all ages.
Gilbert has made
this exciting science
available in safe and
easy to understand
form, made as completely safe
as human ingenuity can devise.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This actually came
with radioactive material.
You could really conduct atomic
energy experiments in it.
It was fascinating.
And it was billed as the
most dangerous toy ever made,
and still, in some
respects, is still
considered that way today.
But the thing is, it wasn't.
It was just people's fear.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> So here I am, and I'm
watching you do your work.
When people don't know
you, it's so easy for them
to just make shit up about
you and to dehumanize you.
How simple that is to do.
The fact that somebody would
say you're not a scientist--
>> I mean all I've ever done is
science related stuff my entire
life.
So I don't know.
I guess the point
is, do I really
care what people I
don't know or think.
And probably, to
some extent, I do.
But I don't-- I
don't dwell on it.
I guess it is easier
to discredit someone
that you have no information
on because you can just
say anything about them.
And there's nothing
to refute it.
I mean, I feel privileged
I got to work in it.
So in some respects, I shouldn't
be allowed to complain.
I've given the example of a--
you know, transporting
a small, modern day,
portable nuclear reactor
back into Victorian times
and giving it to the
scientists there.
Well, back in that
time, they didn't even
know about radiation.
So they'd see a
machine making power,
kind of like what we're
doing, and marvel at it.
Wow, it's producing
a lot of power.
There's no smokestack.
There's no coal.
There's no fuel.
How is this thing working?
And they'd start
taking it apart.
Well, they'll all die as soon
as they get close to the core.
People that come in to
check on them will all die.
And no one knows.
Nothing touched them, so they're
going to think it's haunted
or there's some evil forces
or something in there.
But, I mean, who says
that can happen to us?
The first time Barrick showed
me the reactor in operation,
here it is on the bench.
And he said, try and touch the
sphere on top and you couldn't.
Your hand was pushed away,
just like two light poles
of a magnet.
It's the exact same feeling,
but it was no metal involved.
And that's shocking.
That's really shocking
because nothing does that.
That's an operating,
powerful force field.
So just seeing
something like that,
it immediately starts
that whole chain reaction
in your mind going, well, wait.
If you can do this, there
could be force fields on tanks.
There could be things
that lift off the ground.
We don't need jet and
rocket engines anymore.
That means, wait,
there's no use for cars.
I mean, boom!
The whole thing changes the
entire world the economy.
Everything would
go end on end just
if we had an answer to how
that machine worked that I
was sitting there touching.
>> The potential for us to
re-understand human experience
is--
>> Right.
Right.
I mean, there's
life somewhere else.
It's a big deal.
It's an important
part of human history
that we've found that out.
It was awesome but
fearsome at the same time.
It was being completely
fucking scared all day long.
It's not exactly the most
fun job when you're there.
You know, almost three decades
later the fear drops off
and you're just left with
the amazement and technology
that you were exposed to.
>> We have an artifact here
from another civilization.
It could really change the
way a lot of people think.
We're all looking for an answer.
Having physical proof
is an awful big deal.
>> I think what a lot of people
find really compelling about
Bob-- he legitimately appeared,
and appears sometimes,
just perplexed by what he saw.
Have you noticed that
kind of about him?
>> Yeah.
He was aware that
this was weird.
He was aware it was weird
that they hired him.
I mean, you know,
he's a smart guy
and he thinks outside the box.
So in a lot of ways, he
might have been just what,
exactly what they
needed a program that
seemed to be stalled.
But he knew that he wasn't their
kind of a guy, that they could
have had their pick of any
scientists in the world,
presumably, to work on this.
So it was strange.
And it was strange that
they started showing him
these breeding blocks with
this incredibly sensitive
information right off the bat.
Soon as he gets there,
they start showing him
this stuff with alien
bodies broken down
so you can see their
organs, the history
of human-alien interaction,
and all kinds of things
that the UFO community
had suspected
but no one could prove.
And he just thought it
was weird that anyone
would show him this stuff.
He wondered what the
heck was going on.
I think he was thrilled.
You know, part of him was
really thrilled to be there
and thrilled to see it,
even if it turned out
to be some kind of a ruse.
But, you know, he
knew something was not
quite right about
the whole thing,
or suspected that, anyway.
>> You were telling people since
1989 that there was some sort
of hand scanner--
it was like, a bone scanner.
And you tried to describe it.
You said, you think it took
measurements of the bone.
There were these pegs,
you put your hand on it.
>> It's a small plate with some
pins on it that you could put
between your fingers.
There's a bright light above it.
>> The interesting thing is
when you walk into the facility
or even to leave, they
have a hand reader.
I was told that it
has to do something
where it measures the--
where bright light measures
the bones in your finger.
They're unique to each person.
It kind of sounds like
something out of a TV show,
but that's exactly
the way it is.
>> Man, I look for that kind
of thing all over the internet,
never found anything.
And then, all of a sudden,
this article comes out
and it says that at the
Nellis Range for the--
they were talking about
the stealth program.
There was indeed
this hand scanner
that was used in
these secret programs.
And they just admitted
or announced it publicly.
And there were some photos.
And I just was interested.
And so--
>> I never thought I'd
see one of these again.
[LAUGHS] But I tried to explain
this to people so many times,
and they either didn't
believe me or say,
yeah, I'm sure there is.
And there it is.
There it is.
>> It's like, a biometric
thing for the hands.
Yeah?
>> The beginnings of--
yeah.
I mean, it wasn't all
that advanced back then.
But yeah, that's it.
I can't believe you
found a picture of this.
I really can't.
This was the scanner
used to get in to S4.
And I tried to
explain this to people
so many times, that there was
pins in, you stuck your hand,
a light above, and it
supposedly measured
the length of the bones in
your hand that, you know,
was unique in each individual.
It's exactly,
exactly how it was.
Yeah, that's amazing.
It's amazing you
came up with these.
It's amazing to see this again.
Back then, this
was a hot ticket.
>> What's it feel like when
these little things that you
said become public and there's
this tiny bit of vindication?
>> It is.
There's little moment
to vindication,
you know, little pieces here
and there that-- you know,
little I told you
sos, you know, pop up
every couple of years or so.
But this is a big one.
Because a lot of people
said these didn't exist
and, you know, it was some just
fanciful thing I came up with.
But yeah, this is exactly it.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> Ideas are the most dangerous
weapons on the planet.
They creep under your skin,
dormant, wild, explosive.
They'll test your
collective consciousness.
And then one day, man,
they bubble to the surface
to assert their power.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
And when detonated, life
is never the same again.
And we immediately know
we're always wrong.
We're always fucking wrong.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> I did not believe that there
should be a security matter.
Some of it, sure.
But just the concept that
there is definite proof--
we even have articles from
another world, another system.
You just can't
not tell everyone.
>> Checking out Lazar's
credentials proved to be
a difficult task.
He says he earned degrees
in physics and electronics.
But the schools we contacted
say they've never heard of him.
He also said he
worked as a physicist
at Los Alamos National
Lab, where he experimented
with one of the world's largest
particle beam accelerators,
a half mile long behemoth
capable of generating
700 million bolts.
Los Alamos officials told us
they had no records of a Robert
Lazar ever working there.
They were either
mistaken or were lying.
A 1982 phone books from the
lab lists Lazar right there
among the other scientists
and technicians.
A 1982 clipping from the "Los
Alamos Newspaper" profiled
Lazar and his
interest in jet cars.
It, too, mentioned his
employment at the lab
as a physicist.
We called Los Alamos again.
An exasperated official
told us he still
had no records on Lazar.
EG&G, which is
where Lazar says he
was interviewed for the job
at S4 also has no records.
It's as if someone has
made him disappear.
>> One thing that people
say about your story
and your experience is that
you are a puppet, a marionette,
that you had no control over
what was going on at that time,
that you were taken
advantage or compromised,
and you're being used as a
source of disinformation.
>> And what evidence
to support that?
>> Right.
>> Yeah, man, what's the
evidence to support those
claims?
Is that just something to say?
>> No.
I'm just saying, that's what--
that's the kind of thing--
>> If you make a statement,
you have to have some evidence
to say where the
statement came from.
They're basing it on emotion--
>> Right.
>> --and fear.
They're afraid that I'm right.
Tell me what you've heard
that makes this impossible.
I'm trying to tell you
exactly the way things were.
Where is it?
Show me the alternate
reality that you believe,
that doesn't lock up
with my actual reality.
I mean, where are
those other facts?
Just show me what they are.
These are the facts you
grab together and painted
a different story of
my life than I did.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I mean, I thought I set the
record straight 30 years ago.
>> Can we ever be made
whole if we're not believed,
if our life story is
challenged by consensus?
Most of us are not forced
to answer for our past.
We can freely
navigate this moment
with a reverence for
what came before.
But some people are
placed under a microscope.
Their words, their actions,
scrutinized and challenged.
And then they're
told quiet lies.
How much can a man take before
he submits to the weight
and consequence of distrust?
Does he fade back
into the shadows
that formed him or does
he lash out to carve
his words into your flesh?
To carve his words
into your flesh.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I don't know.
What else can I say?
How can I prove anything else?
>> At the worst case scenario,
you lie for a girl or you lie
to get a job.
What does that mean
about your story?
>> Do you think Los Alamos just
hired me out of high school?
If you don't think
that's possible,
then something had
to happen in between.
I don't understand how
everybody gets so caught up
in the minutia.
Because you can debate
that stuff forever.
We can go back
before MIT, and you
can start fighting
whether or not
and where I lived
in high school.
That is not going to
translate into answering
the questions and
the things that I
brought into the public eye.
That's the important stuff.
It almost seems like this is
an intentional distraction.
You need to pay attention
to the bigger picture.
If you really want to research
all the other stuff, fine.
Go ahead and do it.
But you really need to pay
attention to what I'm saying.
Because I have better things
to do than come up with this.
I'm not interested
in doing this.
[LAUGHS] I don't like
being in the public eye.
I don't have money
for doing this.
And quite frankly, I could
make up a better lie.
But I have no motivation to lie.
This hasn't helped me out.
>> What does that mean
for Lazar's story,
that we can't prove
his schooling?
In fact--
>> It was a problem.
I mean, I had wondered
can we go forward
if we can't verify what was
going on in his background?
The central point
for me was if he
worked at Los Alamos,
that suggests he had
to have an education somewhere.
I think he said it to
me a couple of times.
What do you think, they hired
me right out of high school?
I looked at people who
knew him back then.
Jim Taliani, for
one who said that,
yeah, Bob went to
Caltech back then.
I dropped him off.
I interviewed another person
who also knew Bob then, and had
said that he would drop
him off at Caltech,
would pick him up
from the library,
that if he wasn't going to
school there he sure was making
a good show of it back then.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Would it prove is his story
about working on flying saucers
if he could show he had
degrees from Caltech and MIT?
No, of course not.
It would not prove
any flying saucers.
It would just prove
that he went to school.
The people who
despise him, and who
doubt the story the
most, the debunkers,
would find something
else to bitch about.
Bob got some trouble.
After he became a
worldwide UFO celebrity,
he did a typical
Bob sort of thing
and got mixed up
with some hookers.
He was helping them set
up a little mini-brothel
in a neighborhood.
And when he told me about
it, I thought, oh my gosh.
My professional life is
flashing before my eyes here.
The most high profile witness
in the biggest story I've ever
done is now telling
me he's involved
in this criminal enterprise.
He kind of thought it was funny,
but it wasn't funny to me.
So I said, you got
to stop this stuff.
You got to shut this down.
I called the cops.
I let some people know,
look, he made a mistake.
It's being shut down.
They raided the
place, arrested Bob.
And in those days, there
weren't many people
who were ever prosecuted
and arrested for pandering.
Lazar was.
So parole and probation,
they're doing a background
investigation.
And they're going to
make a recommendation
to the court what the sentence
should be for his crimes.
He tells them the same story--
where he went to
school, where he worked,
S4, MIT, Caltech, all that.
And they investigated.
They were having the same
problems that I was having.
They couldn't verify
a lot of this stuff.
If Bob truly was a
UFO con man, that
was the time to come clean.
Because parole and
probation was ticked off.
They thought he was
misleading them.
And as a result
of that, they were
going to recommend-- they did
recommend that he do hard time,
go to prison.
He knew it.
That was the time
for him to come
clean because it was
a much better chance
that he would not
be sent to prison.
He didn't.
He stuck to his story.
He told them the same
story that he told me.
That went a long way for
me in showing that he
had been telling the truth.
Because it was definitely
in his own self-interest
to fess up at that point
and that's not what he did.
He stuck to his guns.
Here's the thing.
OK, I can see this art pranks
the UFO world and the UFO
community.
I can see him doing
something like that.
But does he lie to
his mom and dad?
Does he lie to his wife?
Does he lie to all
of his close friends
and tell them the same story
and try to get away with it?
You look back on the
people who knew him
while this was going
on, who knew him
before he was hired to work
out at S4, who knew him
during the time he was going
back and forth out there,
and who stuck by him
after this whirlwind
of international publicity kind
of rained down on his head.
Everyone who knew him,
everyone who was close to him
supports his story and says
he's telling the truth.
>> You saw something up here
that you think might have
been--
>> I hate--
I really hate to say stuff
that I can't put my hands on
and say this is
absolutely for sure.
>> OK.
Well, what did you see?
>> I walked down the hallway
at one time I was working out
there, and there were doors--
the doors that go
to the hangars,
the smaller doors
from the corridors,
have a 9 inch or 12
inch square window
with little wires
running through it, just
about head level.
And as I was walking
by, I just glanced in.
And I noticed at a quick
glance, there was--
there were two guys in
white lab coats facing me
towards the door.
And they were looking down
and talking to something small
with long arms.
Now I was just surprised
that I walked by
and I only caught a glimpse.
But I don't know what
on Earth that was.
>> People say you saw an alien.
Did you see an alien at S4, Bob?
>> I don't think I
saw an alien at S4.
You know, we're
splitting hairs here.
This had to do with a
glance through a window
that I wasn't supposed
to be looking at, anyway.
And I'm still convinced
I looked in the window
and I think these guys had a
doll in a small chair, which
was similar to what
was in the craft.
And I think they were just
looking at dimensions,
and they put something in there.
And I just took it a
glance, and it was just,
you know, something tiny
sitting in the chair.
I don't think there is an
alien there posing for them.
I think they just had a
small character of something
and doing measurements
or something.
Again, we're thinking about
like, a 400 millisecond glance.
So now, how much can
you see out of that?
I never saw any aliens
walking around there.
I never heard anybody saying
anything about living aliens.
So I don't think that was it.
>> But they did have a
nickname for the aliens.
>> The kids.
The kids.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> Is someone else here?
Maybe visitors, interested in
us, in our genes, in our souls.
Maybe we're property,
just a goddamn commodity.
We're like livestock.
Maybe they'd like our condors
and cupcakes, the kimono
or the top hat.
Who the fuck knows?
Or maybe every single
sighting of things
the sky is a product of our
collective consciousness,
a false hope that humanity
desperately needs intervention
by external powers.
We've always looked to
the skies for answers
instead of looking
into ourselves.
>> All right.
So at what point--
describe the evolution of
your knowledge here, I mean,
that you realize that this
thing you're working on
came out of a flying saucer.
>> Well, of course, I know
that technology doesn't exist
at all.
>> Why?
>> Well, it doesn't.
Take my word for it.
[LAUGHS] It's-- it's just
technology that doesn't exist
yet.
I mean, you're talking about--
science doesn't even know
what gravity is, much less how
to produce it or control it.
And here is a device that's
producing it and controlling it
and using it as propulsion.
>> You're telling me
there's a different physics.
That was your job.
You were working on that.
>> The science was something
we were trying to figure out.
But we knew how the
devices would operate.
For instance, the
propulsion of the craft--
everything that we have,
whether it's a propeller
plane or a jet or a rocket--
it throws something out the
back, either high speed exhaust
or a large volume of air.
It's an action-reaction force.
The action is you throw
something out the back
and it moves you forward.
It's how everything works.
This is the first
time there is a craft
that it's a reactionless craft.
It's a field propulsion craft.
And what it does, is it creates
a distortion in space and time
in front of it, where
space actually bends.
And my analogy to
that has always
been put a bowling ball
in the middle of your bed.
And then a foot in front of it,
take your fist and push down
on the mattress.
The bowling ball
will roll towards it.
And that's exactly
how the craft worked.
It creates a distortion
right in front of it,
and the craft falls forward.
>> So there's a different
physics that we're--
>> Well, the science that
explains how the technology
works.
I mean, it's all encompassed
is one thing, alien technology
and science.
>> What is the big picture?
What is the takeaway of your
story after you're gone?
You're not a rebel kid with the
jet car at Los Alamos today.
Today's a different Bob Lazar.
Right?
>> Right.
>> What have we learned?
What's the message
of your story?
>> The big thing is the
suppression of extremely
advanced technology, and the
suppression of unknown science.
That's it.
Those two things, to
me, is the only thing
that's important about what
was going on out there.
Yeah, there's
another civilization.
And, like I've
said before, that's
a crime not to tell
humanity about that.
But that's a separate thing.
>> Meaning that there is
something different in science
dramatically that we're
not allowed to know?
>> Right.
Right.
>> That is a true statement.
>> Yeah, that's
a true statement.
>> The fact that there
is another intelligent,
technologically
advanced civilization,
we have some of their objects--
>> That is really the
pinnacle, that there is another
civilization in existence that's
intelligent that we know about.
And we actually have artifacts
from them that can operate.
So, I mean, that's
a big, big deal.
But in my mind, there's
a lot to deal with that.
However, the science
and the technology
can change us dramatically.
It can change the way the
entire world operates,
the economy, everything.
So those stick out in my mind
as being critically important.
>> And we have it.
>> Oh, we have them.
You don't have to
believe it, but we do.
>> And you've seen it.
>> I've seen it.
>> And you have touched it.
>> I've dismantled it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
After you're exposed to it
just for a little while,
it begins to settle in your mind
that these are normal things.
OK, 115 belongs
there on the chart.
This flies, and this
is how gravity works.
Great.
It's like someone being from
the 1800s, being exposed
to a car for a few days.
He takes it for
granted very quickly.
The most shocking thing
was when I actually
got to look inside the disc.
The seats in the panel
associated with them
were very small.
They were, perhaps, that far
off the ground, like something
small.
If we had made
something like that,
we wouldn't have made
it to fit children.
It just led me to believe
that the size of the alien
cadavers I saw, the size
of the seats inside--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Memory as a mirage,
and mistress to desire.
Shapeshifting and
ethereal, she's
inherently elusive and maleable.
We acknowledge her if it suits
our fantasy in the moment.
We fear her because
she is unpredictable.
Can we trust our own memories?
What if we can't?
What if we can?
Can we return to the
scene of the crime
to extract hidden details,
and to see more clearly what
we thought we saw?
>> I was told the rhythmic
shouting and the constant
threats--
that's a form of hypnosis.
>> When did this happen?
>> Oh, this happened
almost immediately.
>> They started yelling
and screaming at you?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, a fun place to work.
>> Well, no.
Like I said, it was a terrible
atmosphere to work in.
But when you weigh
that with what
you're going to be around and--
you'd basically go
through anything.
Yell at me.
Go ahead.
When can we get back
to the flying saucer?
>> You did hypnosis to
try to recall details from
your employment and
from the physics--
>> Right.
>> --of what you learned.
Is that correct?
>> Yeah.
That's correct, with Layne Keck.
>> OK.
And did you recall anything?
>> Yeah, I did.
I mean, specific things
you might have missed.
I basically wanted to
try everything I could
to prove what I was saying.
So this was just another tool.
>> You were familiar
that hypnosis can work--
>> Yeah.
>> --to recall--
And I had had it
done to me before.
So I had proven that yeah,
this really does do something.
Let's try and remember
some fine details or--
>> You wanted to recall some
physics that you learned there.
>> Yeah.
I wanted--
>> Some technical stuff.
>> I wanted to recall as
much as I possibly could.
I mean, so much went
through my mind.
Just imagine all the
things you were seeing,
and every one is
completely fascinating
and something you
haven't seen before.
It's just data overload.
So I was hoping
that hypnosis would
get me relaxed enough where
maybe-- everything was
packed so tight together.
Maybe I could just start
thumbing through things
and just pick up even a
couple of little more tidbits
could paint a bigger picture.
And I could, you know,
possibly explain things better
or possibly locate some of
these other guys or anything,
any bit of information.
So, yeah, and it
was pretty handy.
>> So you did recall
some things technically.
>> Yeah.
Technical things, and
probably others, too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> More and more,
hypnosis is accepted.
However, there's still a lot
of misconceptions about it.
>> Like what?
>> Oh, they think that you go
into a trance and the hypnotist
does something and
you don't remember it.
And all of a sudden,
your life changes.
And that's not the case at all.
There's no mind
control happening.
>> Take a nice, deep breath.
Close your eyes, and
just think relaxation.
Now just think about your
head and relax your head.
Now what I want you to do
is to get as comfortable
as you possibly can, and
just relax completely.
Now double your relaxation,
and the number 100
will be there, one, zero, zero.
Double your relaxation
and the number 99
will come right on in.
Bob, Bob, from this moment on--
from this moment on you
will recall and remember
the material that you seek.
And no one or nothing,
past, present or future,
will stand in your way.
Bob, Bob, Bob, you will
remember because you desire
to remember, to remember.
At one point he was in hypnosis.
I think he was
drawing a reactor.
He was trying to recall
what was in the books.
He saw it in the book.
And then I told him, when you
come up and open your eyes,
you'll be able to draw.
And he did, but it didn't
mean anything to him.
But it was a drawing
that he drew this way.
>> Oh, no way.
>> But it was this way.
And so afterwards, he looked
at it and he came back over
and sat down here for a while.
And he goes, oh, that's because
all I had to do was turn it.
So that's the super conscious.
And literal, the subconscious
takes things literal.
>> Right.
It's like the mind is
absorbing all this stuff,
and then he discovers what
his mind had absorbed.
He's remembering.
>> Yeah.
I was writing so fast.
>> I can't imagine what
you were thinking, too.
Because you're discovering
with them, the kind of shock.
What's the truth?
>> Hypnosis is the best possible
tool of getting to the truth.
If a person makes
things up normally,
they can lie under hypnosis just
as easily as out of hypnosis.
But if they're really trying
to get to and retrieve
information, then it's the
best tool that I know of.
He came in to find out
what he didn't know.
We were able to go
back, overcome the fear,
and bring forth those memories.
>> According to Lazar, his
employer was the United States
Navy.
He says he and other
government employees
would gather near EG&G
fly to Groom Lake,
then very few people would get
into a bus with blacked out
or no windows and drive to S4.
>> When you get off the
bus, what do you see?
>> A very interesting building.
It's got a slope of probably
about 30 degrees, which
are hangar doors.
And it has textured paint on
it, but it looks like sand.
It's made to look like
the side of the mountain
that it's in, whether it's
to disguise it from satellite
photographs or what--
>> He says he was never told
exactly what he'd be working
on, but figured it had something
to do with advanced propulsion.
On his first day he was told
to read a series of briefings,
and immediately realized how
advanced the propulsion was.
>> The power sources
and antimatter reactor,
they run gravity amplifiers.
There's actually two parts
to the drive mechanism.
It's a bizarre technology.
There's no physical
hook up between any
of the systems in there.
They use gravity as a wave,
using wave guides almost
like microwaves.
>> Polygrapher Terry Tavernetti
runs a corporate security
operation, and is a former
Los Angeles police officer.
He put Lazar through four
tests, and concluded there
was no attempt to deceive.
>> And I left there thinking
that I feel we do have some
credibility to what
the subject had to say.
And that's when I went
to some of my colleagues.
>> Tavernetti sent the test
results to a third polygrapher,
who agreed the results
appeared truthful.
>> Bob has explained
to me multiple times,
he tried everything in his
power to prove his story.
>> I wanted to feel
better for myself.
So I said, hey, would
you be willing to undergo
a polygraph test?
He did not hesitate.
He said yes.
Four different tests on four
different areas Bob's claims,
and he said afterward there was
no attempt to deceive at all.
He's telling what he
believes to be the truth.
I have asked the question
many times over the years--
how did Bob Lazar know this
stuff if he wasn't there?
He knew there was
a place called S4.
I had called Nellis Air Force
Base Public Information Office.
They confirmed for me there
really was a place called S4.
Now there's no news
story, prior to Bob Lazar,
about any place called S4.
He knew about it.
He also knew that EG&G had
arranged to hire personnel,
that if you were going
to getting a job out
at Groom Lake, EG&G was
the company that you
would go through.
He knew that there had been
investigators at his home
for the background check.
He remembered the guy's name.
It was an odd
name, Mike Thigpen.
And how did he know?
How did he know
that Mike Thigpen
works for a federal agency
that does this stuff?
>> After 30 years and
this guy dodging you,
I found Mike Thigpen.
I found Thigpen.
>> That's amazing.
>> I couldn't believe it.
>> He's on the East Coast.
I called him.
I've talked with
him multiple times.
You know, he won't go on
camera because he doesn't
want to kind of put a
dark shadow upon the work
that he did before.
But personally, he conveyed
to me that that was his job.
That was exactly what he
did in Las Vegas in 1989.
And, in fact, he
remembers Bob Lazar.
>> Well, the most important
thing Bob knew is that they
were flying something that looks
exactly like a flying saucer
over Papoose Lake, and they
flew on Wednesday nights.
And he took people out
there three weeks in a row
and showed it to them.
And at least once, maybe twice,
they recorded it on video.
That's real.
How did Bob know that?
There have been no
stories about test flights
and flying saucers
at Papoose Lake.
And, by the way,
that's where it was.
It wasn't over Groom Lake,
it was over Papoose Lake.
We checked out so many
details that Bob had told us
that turned out to be true--
the existence of S4,
element 115 really
did become an
element years later
that Bob had been
consulted by the lab which
screened synthesized
man-made element 115.
There was a whole
long string of things
that he knew checked out.
>> These milestones
along the way--
no matter how much
we nit pick it apart,
no matter how much people
don't want to believe it--
the evidence that he's
telling the truth outweighs
the evidence that he's not.
>> Well, I agree with you.
And if I did not believe
that, I would not still
be working on the story.
I would not be publicly
defending Bob Lazar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What was your function
in working on this?
You were doing
What was your job?
>> We were to reverse engineer
the power and propulsion system
of this craft, and see if it
can be duplicated with available
materials.
>> I just want to go over with
you what it is that you saw,
to draw it out for
people, to make a sketch.
As you're seeing it, as if
you're there at that moment,
kind of go back in the path.
>> So the thing I
termed the sport model--
underneath this floor
there are three--
three large centrical devices.
These are on mounts that allow
them to completely swivel up
to 180 degrees and in
a 360 degree rotation.
Directly above each one it's
a small, rectangular object.
This is on the floor above.
And these are the gravity
amplifiers themselves.
Looking down from the top
you'd have the center.
In the very center,
there is a small reactor.
Surrounding this, in three
equally spaced areas,
are the amplifiers.
So this is looking
at it sideways.
This is looking at
it down from the top.
And under these amplifiers,
underneath on the floor
below, are the gravity emitters.
So it's the reactor here
powering the gravity
amplifiers, gravity
amplifiers output
goes into the gravity
emitters at the bottom.
And the resulting gravity
beam or anti-gravity wave
can be pretty much put
anywhere you want to.
There was another level up here.
Now I had access and was
permitted to view and look
at the operation of this
main level with the gravity
amplifiers and the level
below, the gravity emitters.
There is a level above, which
consisted of these two areas
that I'm not all
that familiar with.
I assume these to be some
sort of navigational engine.
People call these large,
black, rectangular areas
on the top portholes.
I believe they were some
plane or a sensor array that
just took in information
from the surrounding
area, whether it be patterns
of stars or what have you.
And there was their version
of a computer or something
to make determinations
here, that
takes input from
those sensors and then
let the craft know
how to orient itself,
and where it was in space.
So that's what I
assume to be up there.
I don't know for a fact, again,
that was not part of my job.
And I was only led
to believe that.
The center antenna is
really an extension
of the reactor in the center.
And that's a wave
guide, which allows
the emission of the
gravity wave, which
forms kind of a heart
shape over the whole craft.
That's how it creates
its distortion.
These gravity emitters can
be swung all the way up
to 180 degrees.
And this allows the craft
to essentially stand
on two of them and hover, while
this one swings up and creates
a distortion in front of
it, allowing the craft
to slide forward.
So that's how their
low power mode Omicron
configuration operate.
The delta configuration
uses all three.
And unlike science
fiction movies,
where you see flying saucers
just flying on like that,
they actually fly belly first.
The craft flies along, leaves
the atmosphere of the planet.
It turns its belly
to the destination.
The three amplifiers focus
in on the destination,
and that's how it proceeds.
So that's basically
the operation of it,
and overall how things were
laid out inside the craft.
>> This is an alien spacecraft.
>> Right.
Right.
Obviously.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> This was the
"Albequerque Journal."
>> The particle
accelerator you had?
>> Yeah.
>> The guy that promised
not to say anything.
I won't say anything
about the UFOs.
>> The article is titled--
>> UFO Guy in Spotlight.
[LAUGHS] Thanks, dude.
>> Isn't that when,
after this came in there,
then the fire department,
police, the zoning commission,
everybody descended
on our house?
>> Yeah.
I wanted to know.
Here's lab supplier
and controversy.
>> I don't think it's that.
>> So originally, the thing
was supposed to be about what?
What did the guy say
the article would--
>> The hydrogen
car, I think it was.
>> Well, the raid.
It was about the raid.
>> This one?
>> Yeah, that's why lab
supplier in controversy.
>> Oh, OK.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
>> The raid in New Mexico.
The guy called.
You know, he said, hey, I heard
about the raid and all that.
Can I come and do that?
And then he says, are you
Bob Lazar, the area 51 guy?
I said, yeah, but I don't
want to get into that.
This is something
more important.
He said, oh, yeah.
We won't even mention it.
No problem.
>> Literally, your house was
taken over by a SWAT team?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes.
Don't just send a letter
in the mail or call us.
>> Right.
>> Had the whole SWAT team
invite themselves to our home.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hidden things are
the most seductive.
The secrets reach
deep into our desire.
They titillate and torment
us like a ticking clock
or a distant alarm
with no origin.
They agitate us and
force us to react.
They danger our complacency.
There was a missing
element to your faith.
But that's the nature
of faith, that there
is something out
there that offers
the promise of salvation.
>> Your call has been forwarded
to an automated voice messaging
system.
At the tone, please
record your message.
[BEEP]
>> Hey, Jeremy.
It's Bob Lazar.
Listen, I have
something to ask you.
Something's really come
up that's important.
If you would text me
and let me know when
is a good time to call you--
I don't want you to call me.
I just need to run
something by you.
OK?
Thanks.
Bye.
>> All right.
So the only record of this
is going to be on the audio,
on this one file, and
then this video clip.
I'm not going to cut it.
I'm going to let it run.
>> Understood.
>> OK.
Then what I'm going to do
is I'm going to encrypt it.
And I'm going to put
both of those two files
into an encrypted thing,
to not be touched unless we
decide it should be touched.
>> That's fine.
>> OK.
That'll be on two drives,
but those two files
will both be in an
encrypted folder.
So here's the deal.
Did you ever get a piece of
element 115 out of Los Alamos?
[THUNDER CRASHING]
>> How much monitoring
they do with me,
I'm sure it's virtually
none after all this time.
>> Hold on one second.
Hold on one second.
Let me-- do you have
your phone on you?
>> Yes.
>> Let's, at this
point, take our phone--
let me put them on
the ground over there.
I'll turn mine off.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> I mean, maybe this has been
kept from us for a good reason.
A lot of people agreed
to keep this secret.
So, first of all,
who am I to upset it?
And, second of all, who am
I to outthink these guys?
Maybe they went over all
these scenarios already
and they know how fucked
up everything will be.
So there's no guarantee
that this revelation is
going to make everything great.
[LAUGHS] There's
just as much chance
it's going to make
everything terrible,
and I'll be to blame for that.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
They identified
themselves as FBI.
And they said, you're Bob Lazar.
Right?
And then one of them got on the
radio saying, yeah, he's here.
Apparently, they also
had my house staked out.
And they were deciding
whether or not to go there.
The conveyor belt of vehicles
and agents and police
did not stop.
The whole thing was like
a "Twilight Zone" episode.
They came in and then
they said, there'll
be a few other
people coming here.
Just got a couple
questions to ask you.
In a short time, the street
filled up with vehicles,
and the building completely
filled with agents.
It was really something else.
>> Did they identify
themselves initially as FBI?
>> Yeah.
FBI identified themselves.
Then came in state police
and a few other agencies.
I don't remember who, but
there were a lot, an awful lot.
Standing room only in the
building, it was crazy.
>> Yeah.
They had a forensic truck.
They had a bunch of
different agents.
They gridded off the building.
I mean, obviously they're
looking for something.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
And what they said,
they were looking
for some paperwork, an old
order from two years ago
about a customer that
ordered some potentially
toxic material, which they
could have called for.
But this was certainly
way over the top.
I looked up to
select the right key,
and they were right beside me.
It was quite
surprising, considering
you could see all around here.
And there would generally have
to be a vehicle somewhere.
But I just pulled up,
got out, picked the key,
and then they started
talking from behind me.
I thought that was
really strange.
Of course, it got much
stranger as the day went on.
>> What got stranger about it?
>> Well, it's just the sheer
amount of people that came,
agency after agency.
I mean, they had
computer experts here
going through all the computer
equipment we had here.
They had people sectioning
off the building,
labeling it in cubic meters,
so they can search each one.
You know, what they were looking
for is just an order form,
so very strange.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> You've been raided two times?
>> Twice, by more agencies
than I can really recall.
The FDA, to the NRC, the FBI--
but they usually come en masse.
I mean, it's hard to
pick out who's who.
>> So this is Beryllium?
>> Yeah.
>> And what is it
used for again?
>> It's used in aerospace.
It's pretty lightweight,
quite strong,
and a high temperature metal.
>> Do you think that
you were shaken down,
to some degree you're
being fucked with?
>> I don't think they're
just fucking with me.
I'm convinced there's
ulterior motives.
I firmly suspect that
there's a lot more to it
than they're
saying, that they're
looking for something else.
>> What they're supposed
to do is tie you up,
put you in the
middle of the room,
have everyone watching you,
so that you can collaborate
a story or try to
trick them or whatnot.
So they just kept us
all in separate rooms.
It was bomb squad,
computer squad--
I think they have, like,
a biological hazard squad,
HAZMAT squad.
It made the full
gamut because they
have no idea what
we had in our shop
or what we're capable of or
are we going to retaliate
or anything like that.
So it was pretty much like the
full Michigan FBI was here.
I mean, they had the van.
They had multiple cars lined up.
>> I mean, in looking at
Bob's life there's always this
suspicion that there's something
more going on shaking him down.
Because he had that
experience before.
>> Yeah.
So this is the second
time that I know
of that he's gotten raided.
So he's always had
this kind of knowledge
that there's somebody watching.
No matter what he does, there's
always somebody watching you.
And it does have to be
related to the Area 51
stuff and all that.
[LAUGHS] You know, they
kind of put him on a list.
I think they do like toying with
him and keeping an eye on him.
But I don't believe that
it's like they're opening up
a 30-year-old file and
they're like, all right,
we're going to crack
down on the Bob story.
And we're going to find out
if he had-- what he has,
what information he's got.
I don't think that they're
necessarily doing that.
But I do think that
there is, like,
a culture maybe within these
agencies, of they know who
this guy is and they'll have--
they'll look for any reason that
they can to kind of poke him
with some thorns and
make sure that he
knows who's watching him.
I believe that.
It's too coincidental for
it all to be just some luck
of the draw, basically.
There's something going on.
[LAUGHS]
>> Everybody knows, the story
is that you got some element 115
out of Los Alamos.
That's public knowledge.
Something you said
a while back--
do you think that what
happened had to do with that?
>> We're not going there.
>> Are they trying to shake you
down to find the 115 that you
said 30 years ago that
you got out of the lab?
People are going to
ask that, so let's just
address that if you feel
comfortable addressing it.
>> No.
>> Do you not feel
comfortable addressing that?
>> No, I don't feel
comfortable addressing that.
You would think after 30 years,
who cares what I have to say?
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> I'm more convinced than ever
that the key to this story is
element 115.
If you could get to that piece
and have it independently
analyzed, I think it would
prove beyond all question
that it came from
somewhere else.
We didn't make it.
And it would go a long way
toward establishing the story
that was told by Bob Lazar.
That's true.
So I think about that a lot.
I think about the cloud
chamber experiment.
I get a lot of emails from
people who say, oh, god.
Where's this video?
You owe it to the world
to show this video.
Cough it up.
And I tell them, look,
I've looked for it.
I've got all these
boxes of crap,
and stuff, and tape,
and news clippings.
And I've looked for it
and I can't find it.
But when somebody like
you comes and talks
to me about the
Bob Lazar story, it
gets the juices flowing again.
You know, I can't help it.
I'm human.
And right now, I want
to go find that tape.
>> I went through every tape
that Bob had in his personal
form archive.
And one of those
tapes, on the outside
in tiny, tiny little
scribble said, Cloud Chamber.
And lo and behold, there's
about just less than a minute
of that cloud
chamber test on tape.
I have it.
>> People have been so
pissed at me over the years.
I can't find that tape or they
think I'm hiding it on purpose.
But I've looked
everywhere for it.
And if you found
it, that's awesome.
>> I did.
Now here's the deal.
In typical Bob Lazar
fashion, there's only about
a minute of it.
However, after all
these years, 30 years,
we have some footage of it.
But it doesn't prove shit
because it's recorded.
>> I was there that night that
they did the cloud chamber
test.
I couldn't tell you what it was.
I didn't know what
a cloud chamber was.
This beam of light was
bent, and it was bent
because they had element 115
in as part of the experiment.
I said, well, that's
pretty important.
That would be huge to
include in the story.
>> I spent time trying to
understand why everybody was
saying this 115 being
stabilized is pseudoscience.
So I called some of the top
heavy element physicists
on the planet from Russia,
to up in San Francisco,
to Washington DC.
And I spoke with
about eight or nine,
but three in particular
who would really talk to me
in-depth about it.
All of them, across the board,
said you cannot rule out
a stabilized version
of element 115.
In fact, that we
believe it is theorized
that in the island of stability
that it would and could
and probably does exist.
So their way of saying it
is we can't rule it out.
So all these people saying
that is pseudoscience, what
Bob said about element 115--
I wanted to find out
is it pseudoscience.
And definitively, we cannot
rule out a stabilized form
of element 115.
I'm sorry.
It is not pseudoscience.
And after doing this
research, that argument
no longer holds water.
>> Makes perfect sense
that it could stable.
And scientists have
said it for a long time.
So, of course, you
can't rule it out.
Again, if you want
to disbelieve Bob,
if you want to cross him off
the list and say he's a fraud,
then your research
goes one inch deep,
and you say element
115, as he described it,
can't exist, and then move on.
If you want to be honest about
it and dig further into it
and understand it,
then you're going
to find out that, in fact,
what Bob says does make sense.
It can be true.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> Element 115 was what we would
call the fuel that provided
the power for the
reactor to work.
>> What happens with
gravity and 115?
>> Element 115 effects gravity.
Element 115 produces its
own gravitational energy.
It had a very specific
manufacturing technique.
I don't really know how
that information came to be.
Its code name was LA 1,000.
That's what it was
referred to off-site.
Its purpose was supposed to be--
again, this is just
a code and deception,
was supposed to be
an advanced armor.
So it's an unusual material.
So now we can take
it to a national lab,
this is LA 1,000,
classified material.
It's a very advanced armor.
That takes care of
all weird questions.
So you immediately
start operating on lies.
This fuel is in the form of
just a three dimensional thin
triangle, full rounded edges.
It's somewhat copper in
color, that reddish-brownish.
The way this is manufactured
is really critical.
It's not just cut out of
a heavy sheet of material.
A cylinder of this
material is taken.
This is machined into a cone.
The outer part of shaved off
using a lathe or something
like that, until you have
a three dimensional cone.
Once you have the cone,
it's sliced like this.
And these slices become that.
Now even this starting
piece, the solid cylinder,
is not even a solid cylinder.
It consists of many
disks, stacked up.
And these are fused
together to produce that.
And all of these steps
are necessary to produce
a successful triangle
that brings fuel.
So actually, you
know, if you were
to look at how this came
to be, this would actually
be pieces of all
these disks that
were cut at unusual angles.
Now apparently, if you don't
do all this, that doesn't work.
So unfortunately, that's the
extent of my knowledge on this.
This makes no sense
anywhere, but that's
what it takes for it to operate.
Now with the alien technology
that was present in the craft,
it takes that basis, that
extra gravitational energy
in a small reactor, amplifies
it through the equipment
there, directs it
through the wave guides
and archways into the
emitters, and allows
it to propel the craft and
manipulate the gravity wave
for whatever use they want.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> How can this be true?
I don't believe a word of this.
Do you expect people
to believe this?
>> No.
I'm not going to
change anyone's mind.
That's not my intention.
I'm just laying the experience,
the job that I went through.
It is a fantastic thing.
It's a fantastic story.
>> But it's true.
>> It's true.
These crafts came from another--
not just another planet,
another solar system, entirely.
Extremely far away,
and they're here.
I mean, I've been
making fireworks
since I was 12, and professional
fireworks for at least
20 years.
Fireworks are just fun.
They're artistic.
It's like painting the sky,
Controlling a large
amount of energy
has always been impressive.
>> Since "The New York
Times" story broke,
since Lou Elizondo came forward,
since those videos went public,
the world is now talking about
UFOs in a more serious vein.
I think that's a good thing.
And I think it
reflects positively
on Bob Lazar's story.
And I hope that the world
will take another look at it.
>> Thus, the jet
bike, the jet car--
>> Yeah, to take a
large amount of energy,
which would normally be
thought to be out of control.
To take that and harness it
and have it do what you want
has always been
impressive to me.
>> The easy way out
is to say he's a liar.
He's making it up.
It's hard to go ahead and
accept the possibility
that he's telling the truth.
But if I did not believe it,
if I thought for a moment
that he was lying about
it, I'd be done with it.
I wouldn't still be
supporting it 30 years later.
>> Your life has been
under a microscope.
Every word you said
for 30 years recorded
has been under a microscope.
And that's affected you.
>> Yeah.
Of course it has.
It'd affect anybody.
>> How has it affected you?
>> In the way I talk
and how much I do.
I'd rather not-- you
know, in a public forum,
I'd rather just
not say anything.
>> Why do you think people are
so obsessed with every word
that you say about your
experiences working at S4?
>> They're just looking for a
way to look for an inaccuracy
and to be able to
discount the whole thing.
Oh, he said this one time and
said it slightly different
this time.
Obviously, he's making it up.
No.
That's just the first
word that entered my mind.
I don't put that much thought
into it when I'm saying it.
As much as a lot of people hate
it, this stuff really happened.
I mean, if it bothers
you that's too bad.
>> I think that's just
hard for people to accept.
>> Yeah.
It would be--
I fully understand.
I would feel the same way.
I'm not sure I would
believe my story.
Boy, there's not enough
evidence, you know?
But I couldn't
discount it, either.
>> The fact is, the people
that know him best believe him
the most.
I hope that one thing that
comes across in your film
is the real Bob.
Once you get to know him, it
becomes much more plausible
as a story.
He's not lying to his mom and
his wife and all his friends.
He's not lying to the
UFO world, either.
>> You saw alien ships?
>> Yeah.
>> You worked on a gravity
wave amplification system,
trying to figure it out.
>> Right, a propulsion
system and a power source
that's completely
unknown to mankind.
>> And there's no way human
beings could have made it.
>> There is no way human
beings could have made it,
under any circumstances, in
any country, anywhere, period.
>> And for 30 years, you
are telling us the truth.
>> You bet.
>> This shit happened.
>> You got it.
>> The fact is, that raid
that happened in Michigan,
that's a very dramatic and
very important development.
They weren't there looking for
records about some customer
he had a couple years ago.
They were looking for 115.
When you bring two dozen agents
and investigators and a crime
lab analysis, and you can
bring people to duplicate
the whole computers
and all that stuff,
they're looking
for something else.
Sure as hell, they're not
looking for a minor receipt.
People may not believe that
115 is real, but somebody does.
Because that's what
they came to look for.
If you want to cross it off and
you don't want to believe it,
fine.
I don't care anymore whether
people believe it or not.
But Bob's telling the truth.
And once you realize that, it
changes everything for you.
It changed everything for me.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>> To crack a life
open at its seams,
to dissect and examine
its content is unnerving,
like they're reading of omens
by viewing the entrails.
We all tell our own stories.
Sometimes, we even believe them.
And sometimes we tell
them one last time.
If you don't believe
it, that's your problem.
What you do with
that is up to you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, I am telling the truth.
I've tried to prove
that what's going on up
there could be the most
important event in history.
You're talking about contact--
physical contact and
proof from another system,
another planet,
another intelligence.
That's got to be the biggest
event in history, period.
>> And it's real.
>> And it's real,
and it's there.
And I had an extremely
small part in it,
but I'm convinced that what I
saw is absolute proof of that.
There is no way we could
have created those systems.
There is no way we could have
made the disks, the power
supplies, anything to go.
>> Lazar says he has no
intention of going on any UFO
lecture circuit.
He's not looking to do
any additional interviews.
In fact, he wasn't too
crazy about doing this one.
He did it after a certain
unfavorable things
started happening in his life.
And he did it because
he feels that whoever
is running the show up
at S4 is perpetrating
a fraud on the
American people and
on the scientific community.
We intend to have much
more about this story,
about the operation up
there, on Monday and beyond.
This is by no means the end
of this series of reports.
In fact, on Monday,
included in our story there,
support testimony
from other people
who say they have knowledge of
the flying disks at the test
site, and information
from people
who know Lazar very well,
and insist his story is true.
>> If indeed they have these
flying saucers, George,
it seems like it would be really
hard to keep this a secret.
>> Well, yeah, it
would seem that way,
except for as Lazar asked
his superiors up there.
And they say it's easiest
secret in the world to keep.
It's leaked out many times
before, and nobody believes it.
>> But what's the Navy
saying about all of this?
>> Of course, the Navy is
supposed to have been his
employer.
And we have brought some fairly
pointed questions to them.
Of course, number one, it
may not be the Navy at all.
Information is so
compartmentalized up there,
no one is exactly
sure who is in charge.
We have put the questions
to several Navy departments.
The answers thus far
have been unsatisfactory.
We've applied for
more information
through the Freedom
of Information Act,
and that information will be
revealed on Monday, as well.
>> You believe his
story, don't you?
>> Yeah, I do.
Yeah.
I've gotten to know
him pretty well
over the last couple
of months, and I
believe he's telling the truth.
>> Fascinating stuff.
Thank you, George.
>> Thanks, George.
[MUSIC PLAYING]